#1. Tell us about a fun or interesting software project you've done for a class.

During the first semester of college in Fall 2023, the final project of the introductory python coding class was to make a playable game. The game we chose to develop was Teeko and involved the use of multiple python libraries and logic to create the rules and interactive environment. My project group was determined to develop the most complex and thorough program in the class to help develop our skills in python and aid in studying for the final exam.

#2. Explain the context and the assignment and walk us through your solution and code.

The assignment was to develop a game utilizing previously taught programming logic and modules and at minimum one self-taught module or logic beyond what was utilized throughout the course. The beginning stages of the project involved the development of a hierarchy for the design of the software using a bottom-up approach. The purpose of doing so was to  determine various individual game logic and rules that were needed then tying them together into more complex functions. The program is broken up into 7 main functions, each of which is utilized for a different component of the game. The game was developed using the logic of determining the number of pieces that are currently on the board and utilizing that information to determine further actions. Depending on the number of pieces currently in play, the program decides whether to place a new piece or replace an existing one, determining if a desired piece placement is considered "valid" according to the rules of the game, and checking after each instance of a replacement if the win condition is satisfied, ending the game.

#Please also tell us if you did this by yourself or in a team, and if it is teamwork, tell us what your contribution was.

The project was done in a team environment by three people and myself. My primary role was to learn about the turtle module and how to properly integrate its features into our code, as well as integrate the logic into a function to run the primary stages of the game. The two functions main_game and print_board were written by myself and involved the use of turtle functions to print the board and interaction with other developed functions to allow for the game to be played. The logic within the play_game function and interaction with other functions was primarily developed by me with the assistance of one other team member. The print_board function’s purpose was to print the board that the game is to be played on. The function required the understanding of the turtle module coordinate system and geometry to determine the proper locations to place the turtle, how far it needs to go, and in what direction it needs to travel. The difficulty in developing the function was to optimize the travel to reduce the space requirements of the code and ensure the board was printed in a reasonable time. The main_game function is utilized once each player has placed their four pieces and begins replacing their pieces. The function involves determining if a player has selected a currently placed piece, which color is currently the player, and if the initial selection and replacement are valid. In developing the main_game and aiding in development of the play_game function, I was involved with  debugging the code. This debugging involved modifying existing functions to change output variable types to obtain more information, such as changing integer outputs to mutable lists to allow interactions across multiple functions. 


The instructions on how to interact with and play the game are located in the file instructions.txt.